README.md, before:

## Introduction

My key motivation for this package: One of my nieces is Deaf, and works as a psychologist at a local school for the Deaf. I do not want to post social media or other videos without captions! There are a lot of good LLMs for converting speech to text, and I wanted to include a couple in my R workflow. I also wanted a way to make it easier to compare a closed caption file with the original video and edit in place.

This package includes R wrappers for two speech-to-text APIs: [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/speech-to-text) and [AssemblyAI](https://www.assemblyai.com/playground). (I also like the local [Vibe](https://thewh1teagle.github.io/vibe/) app for some one-off transcriptions, but that's separate from an R workflow.)

I think the ElevenLabs API is slightly better, but it is more expensive. In addition, I haven't gotten the async processing to work yet, so you may have problems trying to process larger files.

The `edit_subtitles_standalone("your_video.mp4", "your_subtitles.srt")` function launches a Node.js app that lets you watch your video on the left and edit the caption file on the right. You need node.js installed on your local computer for the editing app to work.

Note that this package is doing what I want it to do, but I haven't tested out all the functionality. You're welcome to use it too, but use at your own risk!

## Setup

Install the package from GitHub, for example:

```
# Install from GitHub
remotes::install_github("smach/speech2textR", build_vignettes = TRUE)
```

Load the package:

```
library(speech2textR)
```

You'll need accounts and API keys for whichever transcription API you want to use - [ElevenLabs]((https://elevenlabs.io/docs/quickstart)), [AssemblyAI](https://www.assemblyai.com/docs/getting-started/transcribe-an-audio-file), or both.

Authenticate with `elevenlabs_auth("YOUR_API_KEY")` or `assemblyai_auth("YOUR-API-KEY")`. Both default to environment variables (`ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` or `ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY`)

## Usage

### Getting transcriptions

You can use either API to transcribe audio or video files:

```
# ElevenLabs API
transcript11 <- elevenlabs_transcribe("your_audio.mp3")

# AssemblyAI API
transcriptai <- assemblyai_transcribe("your_video.mp4")
```

The package includes a brief video snippet you can use for testing

```
my_video <- system.file("extdata", "sample_video_snippet.mp4", package = "text2speechR")

# ElevenLabs API
transcript11 <- elevenlabs_transcribe(my_video)

# AssemblyAI API
transcriptai <- assemblyai_transcribe(my_video)
```

### Saving as text or subtitles

Once you have a transcript, save it in your preferred format:

```{r}
# Save as plain text file
elevenlabs_transcript_to_txt(transcript11, "transcript11.txt")
assemblyai_transcript_to_txt(transcriptai, "transcriptai.txt")

# Save as an .srt captions file
elevenlabs_transcript_to_srt(transcript11, "subtitles11.srt")
assemblyai_transcript_to_srt(transcriptai, "subtitlesai.srt")
```

### More options

Both APIs support additional features like speaker identification and language specification. For example:

```{r}
# Identify different speakers
transcript <- elevenlabs_transcribe("meeting.mp4", diarize = TRUE)
transcript <- assemblyai_transcribe("meeting.mp4", speaker_labels = TRUE)

# Specify language for better accuracy
transcript <- elevenlabs_transcribe("interview.mp3", language_code = "es")
```

Check the help files (`?elevenlabs_transcribe` and `?assemblyai_transcribe`) for more options.

### Editing subtitles

The package includes a subtitle editor that lets you watch your video while editing captions. You can load it with an R function:

```
# Requires Node.js be installed
edit_subtitles_standalone("video.mp4", "subtitles.srt")
```

The editor opens in your browser with video playback, click-to-seek, and inline editing. Press Ctrl+C in R to stop.

More specifically: You can click to advance the video and the caption text will sync to that location. Same if you click one of the subtitle text cards (outside of the text box - clicking inside the text box allows you to edit the text) -- the video will sync to that location.


## API Pricing Differences

As of November 2025, you could process 2.5 hours per month on the ElevenLabs free plan, but otherwise you need at least a $5/month plan (that gets you 12.5 hours/ month - additional hours are 40 cents.) AssemblyAI gives you 185 free hours to start, after which you need to pay per use. Its default model is 15 cents per hour on that plan.

Commit message:

Complete transcript editor with audio sync feature
- Added edit_transcript_standalone() R function for editing text transcripts
- Created full HTML/JS interface with two modes:
  * Sync Mode: Click words to jump audio, audio highlights current word
  * Edit Mode: Full text editing with save functionality
- Implemented bidirectional sync between audio playback and text
- Uses word-level timestamps from transcription APIs
- Updated server.js with audio streaming and save endpoints
- Added documentation (man page) and updated README
- Supports both direct transcript objects and .txt files with timestamp data

This allows users to edit human-readable transcript text files while
listening to audio, with the same sync capabilities as the video subtitle editor.

README.md, after:

## Introduction

My key motivation for this package: One of my nieces is Deaf, and works as a psychologist at a local school for the Deaf. I do not want to post social media or other videos without captions! There are a lot of good LLMs for converting speech to text, and I wanted to include a couple in my R workflow. I also wanted a way to make it easier to compare a closed caption file with the original video and edit in place.

This package includes R wrappers for two speech-to-text APIs: [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/speech-to-text) and [AssemblyAI](https://www.assemblyai.com/playground). (I also like the local [Vibe](https://thewh1teagle.github.io/vibe/) app for some one-off transcriptions, but that's separate from an R workflow.)

I think the ElevenLabs API is slightly better, but it is more expensive. In addition, I haven't gotten the async processing to work yet, so you may have problems trying to process larger files.

The `edit_subtitles_standalone("your_video.mp4", "your_subtitles.srt")` function launches a Node.js app that lets you watch your video on the left and edit the caption file on the right. You need node.js installed on your local computer for the editing app to work.

Note that this package is doing what I want it to do, but I haven't tested out all the functionality. You're welcome to use it too, but use at your own risk!

## Setup

Install the package from GitHub, for example:

```
# Install from GitHub
remotes::install_github("smach/speech2textR", build_vignettes = TRUE)
```

Load the package:

```
library(speech2textR)
```

You'll need accounts and API keys for whichever transcription API you want to use - [ElevenLabs]((https://elevenlabs.io/docs/quickstart)), [AssemblyAI](https://www.assemblyai.com/docs/getting-started/transcribe-an-audio-file), or both.

Authenticate with `elevenlabs_auth("YOUR_API_KEY")` or `assemblyai_auth("YOUR-API-KEY")`. Both default to environment variables (`ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` or `ASSEMBLYAI_API_KEY`)

## Usage

### Getting transcriptions

You can use either API to transcribe audio or video files:

```
# ElevenLabs API
transcript11 <- elevenlabs_transcribe("your_audio.mp3")

# AssemblyAI API
transcriptai <- assemblyai_transcribe("your_video.mp4")
```

The package includes a brief video snippet you can use for testing

```
my_video <- system.file("extdata", "sample_video_snippet.mp4", package = "text2speechR")

# ElevenLabs API
transcript11 <- elevenlabs_transcribe(my_video)

# AssemblyAI API
transcriptai <- assemblyai_transcribe(my_video)
```

### Saving as text or subtitles

Once you have a transcript, save it in your preferred format:

```{r}
# Save as plain text file
elevenlabs_transcript_to_txt(transcript11, "transcript11.txt")
assemblyai_transcript_to_txt(transcriptai, "transcriptai.txt")

# Save as an .srt captions file
elevenlabs_transcript_to_srt(transcript11, "subtitles11.srt")
assemblyai_transcript_to_srt(transcriptai, "subtitlesai.srt")
```

### More options

Both APIs support additional features like speaker identification and language specification. For example:

```{r}
# Identify different speakers
transcript <- elevenlabs_transcribe("meeting.mp4", diarize = TRUE)
transcript <- assemblyai_transcribe("meeting.mp4", speaker_labels = TRUE)

# Specify language for better accuracy
transcript <- elevenlabs_transcribe("interview.mp3", language_code = "es")
```

Check the help files (`?elevenlabs_transcribe` and `?assemblyai_transcribe`) for more options.

### Editing subtitles

The package includes a subtitle editor that lets you watch your video while editing captions. You can load it with an R function:

```
# Requires Node.js be installed
edit_subtitles_standalone("video.mp4", "subtitles.srt")
```

The editor opens in your browser with video playback, click-to-seek, and inline editing. Press Ctrl+C in R to stop.

More specifically: You can click to advance the video and the caption text will sync to that location. Same if you click one of the subtitle text cards (outside of the text box - clicking inside the text box allows you to edit the text) -- the video will sync to that location.

### Editing transcripts with audio sync

NEW! You can also edit plain text transcripts while listening to audio, with full bidirectional sync between text and audio:

```
# Transcribe audio
transcript <- elevenlabs_transcribe("audio.mp3")

# Launch the transcript editor
edit_transcript_standalone("audio.mp3", transcript)
```

The transcript editor displays your text as a clean, readable document (not SRT format). Features:
- Click any word to jump the audio to that position
- Click in the audio player to sync the text to that position
- Current word highlights as audio plays
- Toggle between Sync Mode (for navigation) and Edit Mode (for editing)
- Save your edited transcript as a .txt file

This works because the transcription APIs return word-level timestamps. You can also edit an existing .txt file if you have the original transcript object:

```
edit_transcript_standalone("audio.mp3", "transcript.txt", transcript_data = transcript)
```


## API Pricing Differences

As of November 2025, you could process 2.5 hours per month on the ElevenLabs free plan, but otherwise you need at least a $5/month plan (that gets you 12.5 hours/ month - additional hours are 40 cents.) AssemblyAI gives you 185 free hours to start, after which you need to pay per use. Its default model is 15 cents per hour on that plan.
